1782141103a:6:{s:8:"original";s:3438:"International Journal of Linguistics, Literature and Translation | Vol. 6, No. 11, November 2023 relevant framework for understanding Morrison's approach, while Ngugi wa Thiong'o's reflections on language and decolonization illuminate Achebe's project. Homi Bhabha's concept of the 'third space' is equally pertinent, as it allows us to understand how both authors negotiate between the cultural heritage of their communities and the dominant Western culture, creating hybrid spaces where new forms of cultural identity emerge. 3. ORAL TRADITION AS IDENTITY MARKER 3.1 In Toni Morrison's Song of Solomon In Song of Solomon, Morrison draws extensively on African-American oral tradition to construct the identity of Milkman Dead, the novel's protagonist. The flying myth, inherited from African tradition, serves as a central metaphor for the recovery of cultural roots. The song of Solomon itself, transmitted orally through generations, embodies the collective memory of the African-American community and its connections with the African continent. Morrison uses proverbs and folk wisdom to anchor her narrative in an authentic cultural tradition. The character Pilate, with her songs and stories, represents the living repository of this oral memory. Morrison writes: 'If you surrendered to the air, you could ride it.' This metaphor of flight encapsulates the novel's central theme: the recovery of cultural identity through reconnection with ancestral heritage. 3.2 In Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart Achebe integrates Igbo oral tradition into the very structure of his novel. The proverbs that punctuate the narrative serve as both cultural markers and narrative devices. As Achebe himself states: 'Among the Igbo the art of conversation is regarded very highly, and proverbs are the palm-oil with which words are eaten.' These proverbs are not mere stylistic ornaments; they embody the collective wisdom of the Igbo people and assert the richness and sophistication of their culture against the backdrop of colonial denigration. Achebe consciously employs this strategy to counter Western representations of Africa as a continent without history or culture. The very use of English to describe Igbo cultural practices represents a subversive act: appropriating the colonizer's language to celebrate colonized cultures. 4. COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS: IDENTITY CONSTRUCTION STRATEGIES Despite the geographical and historical distance separating them, Morrison and Achebe share fundamental literary strategies in their construction of cultural identity: a) Recovery of Memory: Both authors use narrative as an instrument for recovering collective memory. Morrison reconstructs the fragmentary memory of the African-American diaspora through Milkman's journey to the South, while Achebe preserves the memory of a pre-colonial Igbo society threatened by colonization through the story of Okonkwo. b) Language as Resistance: For both authors, language itself becomes a site of resistance. Morrison's use of African-American vernacular and Achebe's integration of Igbo linguistic structures challenge the hegemony of standard English and affirm the validity of subaltern cultures. c) Mythical Dimension: Both novels draw on myth as a source of cultural legitimacy. The flying myth in Song of Solomon and the creation myths referenced in Things Fall Apart ground the characters' identities in a cosmological IJLLT | Al-Kindi Publisher | Page 2";s:10:"translated";s:3438:"International Journal of Linguistics, Literature and Translation | Vol. 6, No. 11, November 2023 relevant framework for understanding Morrison's approach, while Ngugi wa Thiong'o's reflections on language and decolonization illuminate Achebe's project. Homi Bhabha's concept of the 'third space' is equally pertinent, as it allows us to understand how both authors negotiate between the cultural heritage of their communities and the dominant Western culture, creating hybrid spaces where new forms of cultural identity emerge. 3. ORAL TRADITION AS IDENTITY MARKER 3.1 In Toni Morrison's Song of Solomon In Song of Solomon, Morrison draws extensively on African-American oral tradition to construct the identity of Milkman Dead, the novel's protagonist. The flying myth, inherited from African tradition, serves as a central metaphor for the recovery of cultural roots. The song of Solomon itself, transmitted orally through generations, embodies the collective memory of the African-American community and its connections with the African continent. Morrison uses proverbs and folk wisdom to anchor her narrative in an authentic cultural tradition. The character Pilate, with her songs and stories, represents the living repository of this oral memory. Morrison writes: 'If you surrendered to the air, you could ride it.' This metaphor of flight encapsulates the novel's central theme: the recovery of cultural identity through reconnection with ancestral heritage. 3.2 In Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart Achebe integrates Igbo oral tradition into the very structure of his novel. The proverbs that punctuate the narrative serve as both cultural markers and narrative devices. As Achebe himself states: 'Among the Igbo the art of conversation is regarded very highly, and proverbs are the palm-oil with which words are eaten.' These proverbs are not mere stylistic ornaments; they embody the collective wisdom of the Igbo people and assert the richness and sophistication of their culture against the backdrop of colonial denigration. Achebe consciously employs this strategy to counter Western representations of Africa as a continent without history or culture. The very use of English to describe Igbo cultural practices represents a subversive act: appropriating the colonizer's language to celebrate colonized cultures. 4. COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS: IDENTITY CONSTRUCTION STRATEGIES Despite the geographical and historical distance separating them, Morrison and Achebe share fundamental literary strategies in their construction of cultural identity: a) Recovery of Memory: Both authors use narrative as an instrument for recovering collective memory. Morrison reconstructs the fragmentary memory of the African-American diaspora through Milkman's journey to the South, while Achebe preserves the memory of a pre-colonial Igbo society threatened by colonization through the story of Okonkwo. b) Language as Resistance: For both authors, language itself becomes a site of resistance. Morrison's use of African-American vernacular and Achebe's integration of Igbo linguistic structures challenge the hegemony of standard English and affirm the validity of subaltern cultures. c) Mythical Dimension: Both novels draw on myth as a source of cultural legitimacy. The flying myth in Song of Solomon and the creation myths referenced in Things Fall Apart ground the characters' identities in a cosmological IJLLT | Al-Kindi Publisher | Page 2";s:11:"source_lang";s:2:"fr";s:11:"target_lang";s:2:"fr";s:4:"page";i:2;s:6:"cached";b:0;}