1782139322a:6:{s:8:"original";s:3586:"International Journal of Linguistics, Literature and Translation | Vol. 6, No. 11, November 2023 A Comparative Approach of the Portrayal of the Cultural Identity in Toni Morrison's Song of Solomon and in Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart Basile Marius Ngassaki Ne le 12 fevrier 1954 a Brazzaville (Republique du Congo) Faculte des Lettres, Arts et Sciences Humaines (FLASH), Universite Marien Ngouabi Received: October 2023 | Accepted: November 2023 | Published: November 26, 2023 ISSN: 2617-0299 (Online) | Al-Kindi Publisher | DOI: 10.32996/ijllt.2023.6.11 ABSTRACT This article proposes a comparative study of the portrayal of cultural identity in Toni Morrison's Song of Solomon (1977) and Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart (1958). Both works, emblematic of African-American and African literature respectively, deploy the resources of oral tradition, ancestral myth, and linguistic symbolism to construct and assert a cultural identity long subjugated by colonial and post-colonial forces. Through sociological, historical, and linguistic approaches, this study highlights the manner in which the two authors use oral tradition and proverbs as fundamental identity markers. Morrison, in a quest for roots in an African-American context, exploits the flying myth to restore a fragmented memory and build bridges between Africa and the diaspora. Achebe, for his part, in an anti-colonial perspective, deploys the Igbo proverb as a vehicle of collective wisdom and resistance against Western cultural hegemony. This comparative analysis reveals how these two writers, despite their different geographical and historical contexts, share the same literary and ideological project: to restore cultural dignity and reaffirm the richness of African and African-American identities. Keywords: Cultural identity, oral tradition, proverb, Toni Morrison, Chinua Achebe, African literature, post-colonialism, literary comparison. 1. INTRODUCTION Literature constitutes one of the most powerful vectors of cultural identity affirmation. In the context of post-colonial studies, the works of Toni Morrison and Chinua Achebe occupy a central place insofar as they address, each in their own way, the question of the construction and preservation of cultural identities marginalized or denied by Western colonialism. Morrison, in Song of Solomon (1977), and Achebe, in Things Fall Apart (1958), use narrative strategies that draw on the oral traditions, myths, and linguistic practices of their respective communities to restore a sense of belonging and cultural pride. The question that guides this study is: In what ways do these two authors use literary tools to portray and assert cultural identity? The hypothesis is that both authors, despite their different contexts, share an analogous literary project aimed at rehabilitating marginalized cultures by exploiting the resources of oral tradition. 2. THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK This study is based on three complementary theoretical approaches: The sociological approach examines how social structures influence the construction of literary identity. The historical approach contextualizes the works in the African-American and African post-colonial experiences. The linguistic approach analyzes the use of proverbs, myths, and oral traditions as markers of identity. The concept of cultural identity, understood as the set of cultural characteristics that define a group and distinguish it from others, is central to our analysis. Stuart Hall's work on cultural identity in the diaspora provides a particularly IJLLT | Al-Kindi Publisher | Page 1";s:10:"translated";s:3586:"International Journal of Linguistics, Literature and Translation | Vol. 6, No. 11, November 2023 A Comparative Approach of the Portrayal of the Cultural Identity in Toni Morrison's Song of Solomon and in Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart Basile Marius Ngassaki Ne le 12 fevrier 1954 a Brazzaville (Republique du Congo) Faculte des Lettres, Arts et Sciences Humaines (FLASH), Universite Marien Ngouabi Received: October 2023 | Accepted: November 2023 | Published: November 26, 2023 ISSN: 2617-0299 (Online) | Al-Kindi Publisher | DOI: 10.32996/ijllt.2023.6.11 ABSTRACT This article proposes a comparative study of the portrayal of cultural identity in Toni Morrison's Song of Solomon (1977) and Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart (1958). Both works, emblematic of African-American and African literature respectively, deploy the resources of oral tradition, ancestral myth, and linguistic symbolism to construct and assert a cultural identity long subjugated by colonial and post-colonial forces. Through sociological, historical, and linguistic approaches, this study highlights the manner in which the two authors use oral tradition and proverbs as fundamental identity markers. Morrison, in a quest for roots in an African-American context, exploits the flying myth to restore a fragmented memory and build bridges between Africa and the diaspora. Achebe, for his part, in an anti-colonial perspective, deploys the Igbo proverb as a vehicle of collective wisdom and resistance against Western cultural hegemony. This comparative analysis reveals how these two writers, despite their different geographical and historical contexts, share the same literary and ideological project: to restore cultural dignity and reaffirm the richness of African and African-American identities. Keywords: Cultural identity, oral tradition, proverb, Toni Morrison, Chinua Achebe, African literature, post-colonialism, literary comparison. 1. INTRODUCTION Literature constitutes one of the most powerful vectors of cultural identity affirmation. In the context of post-colonial studies, the works of Toni Morrison and Chinua Achebe occupy a central place insofar as they address, each in their own way, the question of the construction and preservation of cultural identities marginalized or denied by Western colonialism. Morrison, in Song of Solomon (1977), and Achebe, in Things Fall Apart (1958), use narrative strategies that draw on the oral traditions, myths, and linguistic practices of their respective communities to restore a sense of belonging and cultural pride. The question that guides this study is: In what ways do these two authors use literary tools to portray and assert cultural identity? The hypothesis is that both authors, despite their different contexts, share an analogous literary project aimed at rehabilitating marginalized cultures by exploiting the resources of oral tradition. 2. THEORETICAL FRAMEWORK This study is based on three complementary theoretical approaches: The sociological approach examines how social structures influence the construction of literary identity. The historical approach contextualizes the works in the African-American and African post-colonial experiences. The linguistic approach analyzes the use of proverbs, myths, and oral traditions as markers of identity. The concept of cultural identity, understood as the set of cultural characteristics that define a group and distinguish it from others, is central to our analysis. Stuart Hall's work on cultural identity in the diaspora provides a particularly IJLLT | Al-Kindi Publisher | Page 1";s:11:"source_lang";s:2:"fr";s:11:"target_lang";s:2:"fr";s:4:"page";i:1;s:6:"cached";b:0;}